src/doc/docs/guide/test.md, before:

# Testing

Test support require `io.dropwizard:dropwizard-testing:1.3.0` dependency.

## General test support

### Configurator

Guice provides [configurators mechanism](configuration.md#configurators) to be able to modify
application configuration in tests.

Using configurator you can disable installers, extensions, guicey bundles  
or override guice bindings.

It may also be useful to register additional extensions (e.g. to validate some internal behaviour).

Configurator example:

```java
public class MuConfigurator implements GuiceyConfigurator {
    public void configure(GuiceBundle.Builder builder) {
        builder
            .disableModules(FeatureXModule.class)
            .disable(inPackage("com.foo.feature"))
            .modulesOverride(new MockDaoModule())
            .option(Myoptions.DebugOption, true);
    }
}
```

!!! note
    You can modify options in configurator and so could enable some custom
    debug/monitoring options specifically for test.

There are special spock and junit extensions for configurator registrations.

### Disables

You can use configurator to disable all not needed features in test:
* [installers](configuration.md#disable-installer) 
* [extensions](configuration.md#disable-extensions) 
* [guice modules](configuration.md#disable-guice-modules)
* [guicey bundles](configuration.md#disable-bundles) 

This way you can isolate (as possible) some feature for testing. 

The most helpful should be bundles disable (if you use bundles for features grouping)
and guice modules.

Use [predicate disabling](configuration.md#disable-by-predicate).

!!! note
    It is supposed that disabling will be used instead of mocking - you simply remove what
    you don't need and register replacements, if required.

### Guice bindings override

It is quite common requirement to override bindings for testing. For example, 
you may want to mock database access.

Guicey could use guice `Modules.override()` to help you override required bindings.
To use it prepare module only with changed bindings (bindings that must override existing).
For example, you want to replace ServiceX. You have few options:

* If it implement interface, implement your own service and bind as 
`bind(ServiceContract.class).to(MyServiceXImpl.class)`
* If service is a class, you can modify its behaviour with extended class
`bind(ServiceX.class).to(MyServiceXExt.class)`
* Or you can simply register some mock instance
`bind(ServiceX.class).toInstance(myMockInstance)`

```java
public class MyOverridingModule extends AbstractModule {
    
    protected configure() {
        bind(ServiceX.class).to(MyServiceXExt.class);        
    }
}
```  

And register overriding module in configurator:

```java
public class MuConfigurator implements GuiceyConfigurator {
    public void configure(GuiceBundle.Builder builder) {
        builder
            .modulesOverride(new MyOverridingModule())
    }
}
```

### Debug bundles

You can also use special guicey bundles, which modify application behaviour.
Bundles could contain additional listeners or services to gather additional metrics during
tests or validate behaviour.

For example, guicey tests use bundle in tests to enable restricted guice options like 
`disableCircularProxies`.

Bundles are also able to:
* disable installers, extensions, gucie modules
* override guice bindings

You can use lookup mechanism to load bundles in tests. For example, 
[system properties lookup](bundles.md#system-property-lookup). 

## Junit

### Testing core logic

For integration testing of guice specific logic you can use `GuiceyAppRule`. It works almost like 
[DropwizardAppRule](http://www.dropwizard.io/1.3.0/docs/manual/testing.html),
but *doesn't start jetty* (and so jersey and guice web modules will not be initialized). 
Managed and lifecycle objects supported.

```java
public class MyTest {

    @Rule
    GuiceyAppRule<MyConfiguration> RULE = new GuiceyAppRule<>(MyApplication.class, "path/to/configuration.yaml");
    
    public void testSomething() {
        RULE.getBean(MyService.class).doSomething();
        ...
    }
}
```

As with dropwizard rule, configuration is optional

```java
new GuiceyAppRule<>(MyApplication.class, null)
```

### Testing web logic

For web component tests (servlets, filters, resources) use 
[DropwizardAppRule](http://www.dropwizard.io/1.3.0/docs/manual/testing.html).

To access guice beans use injector lookup:

```java
InjectorLookup.getInjector(RULE.getApplication()).getBean(MyService.class);
```

### Testing startup errors

If exception occur on startup dropwizard will call `#!java System.exit(1)` instead of throwing exception (as it was before 1.1.0).
System exit could be intercepted with [system rules](http://stefanbirkner.github.io/system-rules/index.html).

Special rule is provided to simplify work with system rules: `StartupErrorRule`.
It's a combination of exit and out/err outputs interception rules.

To use this rule add dependency: `com.github.stefanbirkner:system-rules:1.16.0`


```java
public class MyErrTest {

    @Rule
    public StartupErrorRule RULE = StartupErrorRule.create();
    
    public void testSomething() {
        new MyErrApp().main('server');
    }
}
```

This test will pass only if application will throw exception during startup.

In junit it is impossible to apply checks after exit statement, so such checks
must be registered as a special callback:

```java
public class MyErrTest {

    @Rule
    public StartupErrorRule RULE = StartupErrorRule.create((out, err) -> {
        Assert.assertTrue(out.contains("some log line"));
        Assert.assertTrue(err.contains("expected exception message"));
    });
    
    public void testSomething() {
        new MyErrApp().main('server');
    }
}
```

Note that err will contain full exception stack trace and so you can check exception type too
by using contains statement like above.

Check callback(s) may be added after rule creation:

```java
@Rule
public StartupErrorRule RULE = StartupErrorRule.create();

public void testSomething() throws Exception {
    RULE.checkAfterExit((out, err) -> {
            Assert.assertTrue(err.contains("expected exception message"));
        });
    ...
}
``` 

Multiple check callbacks may be registered (even if the first one was registered in rule's 
create call).

!!! note ""
    Rule works a bit differently with spock (see below).

## Spock

If you use [spock framework](http://spockframework.org) you can use spock specific extensions:

* `@UseGuiceyApp` - internally use `GuiceyAppRule`
* `@UseDropwizardApp` - internally use `DropwizardAppRule`

Both extensions allows using injections directly in specifications (like spock-guice).

### Spock lifecycle hooks

```groovy
class MyTest extends Specification {
    
    @ClassRule @Shared
    JunitRule sharedRule = new JunitRule()
    
    @Rule
    JunitRule2 rule = new JunitRule2()
    
    def setupSpec() {
    }
    
    def setup() {
    }
    
    def "Test method body" () {
        setup:
    }
}
```

!!! note ""
    Class rules are applied once per test class (same as `setupSpec`).
    Rules are applied per test method (same as `setup`).

Setup order:

* Class rule
* Setup spec method
* Rule
* Setup method
* Test method's setup section

### @UseGuiceyApp

`@UseGuiceyApp` runs all guice logic without starting jetty (so resources, servlets and filters are not available).
Managed objects are handled correctly.

```groovy
@UseGuiceyApp(MyApplication)
class AutoScanModeTest extends Specification {

    @Inject MyService service

    def "My service test" {
        when: 'calling service'
        def res = service.getSmth()
        then: 'correct result returned'
        res == 'hello'
    }
```

Annotation allows you to configure the same things as rules does: application class, configuration file (optional),
configuration overrides.

```groovy
@UseGuiceyApp(value = MyApplication,
    config = 'path/to/my/config.yml',
    configOverride = [
            @ConfigOverride(key = "foo", value = "2"),
            @ConfigOverride(key = "bar", value = "12")
    ])
class ConfigOverrideTest extends Specification {
```

As with rules, `configOverride` may be used without setting config file (simply to fill some configurations)

### @UseDropwizardApp

`@UseDropwizardApp` is useful for complete integration testing (when web part is required):

```groovy
@UseDropwizardApp(MyApplication)
class WebModuleTest extends Specification {

    @Inject MyService service

    def "Check web bindings"() {

        when: "calling filter"
        def res = new URL("http://localhost:8080/dummyFilter").getText()
        then: "filter active"
        res == 'Sample filter and service called'
        service.isCalled()
```

Annotation supports the same configuration options as `@UseGuiceyApp` (see above)

### Dropwizard startup error

`StartupErrorRule` may be used to intercept dropwizard `#!java System.exit(1)` call.
But it will work different then for junit:
`then` section is always called with exception (`CheckExitCalled`). 
Also, `then` section may be used for assertion after exit calls and so there is 
no need to add custom assertion callbacks (required by junit tests).

```groovy
class ErrorTest extends Specification {

    @Rule StartupErrorRule RULE = StartupErrorRule.create()

    def "Check startup error"() {

        when: "starting app with error"
        new MyErrApp().main(['server'])
        
        then: "startup failed"
        thrown(RULE.indicatorExceptionType)
        RULE.output.contains('stating application')
        RULE.error.contains('some error occur')
```

### Spock extensions details

Extensions follow spock-guice style - application started once for all tests in class. It's the same as using rule with
`@ClassRule` annotation. Rules may be used with spock too (the same way as in junit), but don't mix them with
annotation extensions.

There are two limitations comparing to rules:

* Application can't be created for each test separately (like with `@Rule` annotation). This is because of `@Shared` instances support.
* You can't customize application creation: application class must have no-args constructor (with rules you can extend rule class
and override `newApplication` method). But this should be rare requirement.

!!! note ""
    All guicey tests use spock, so you can see extensions usage examples there.

To better understand injection scopes look the following test:

```groovy
@UseGuiceyApp(AutoScanApplication)
class InjectionTest extends Specification {

    // instance remain the same between tests
    @Shared @Inject TestBean sharedBean

    // new instance injected on each test
    @Inject TestBean bean

    // the same context used for all tests (in class), so the same bean instance inserted before each test
    @Inject TestSingletonBean singletonBean

    def "Check injection types"() {
        when: "changing state of injected beans"
        sharedBean.value = 10
        bean.value = 5
        singletonBean.value = 15

        then: "instances are different"
        sharedBean.value == 10
        bean.value == 5
        singletonBean.value == 15

    }

    def "Check shared state"() {

        expect: "shared bean instance is the same, whereas other one re-injected"
        sharedBean.value == 10
        bean.value == 0
        singletonBean.value == 15 // the same instance was set before second test
    }

    // bean is in prototype scope
    static class TestBean {
        int value
    }

    @Singleton
    static class TestSingletonBean {
        int value
    }
}
```

## Overriding beans

There is no direct support for bean overrides yet (it is planned), but you can use the following approach.

First, prepare custom [injector factory](injector.md#injector-factory):

```java
public class CustomInjectorFactory implements InjectorFactory {
    private static ThreadLocal<Module[]> customModules = new ThreadLocal<>();

    @Override
    public Injector createInjector(Stage stage, Iterable<? extends Module> modules) {
        Module[] override = customModules.get();
        customModules.remove();
        return Guice.createInjector(stage, override == null ? modules
                : Lists.newArrayList(Modules.override(modules).with(override)));
    }

    public static void override(Module... modules) {
        customModules.set(modules);
    }

    public static void clear() {
        customModules.remove();
    }
}
```

It allows using guice `Module.overrides()` for bindings substitution.

Register factory in guice bundle:

```java
GuiceBundle.builder()
    .injectorFactory(new CustomInjectorFactory())
```

Guice Module.overrides forcefully override (substitute) all bindings from override modules.
So all modules in your application remain the same but you can create new test modules
with test specific replacements.

For example, suppose we have some service `CustomerService` and it's implementation, defined in appllication
`CustomerServiceImpl`. To override it we prepare new test module:

```java
public class TestModule extends AbstractModule {
    @Override
    protected void configure() {
        bind(CustomerService.class).to(TestCustomerServiceImpl.class);
    }
}
```

Now register overriding module:

```java
CustomInjectorFactory.override(new TestModule());
```

!!! warning
    Overriding modules registration must be performed before guicey start.
    
 After startup, application will use overridden customer service version.

Of course this approach is far from ideal, but it's the best option for now.

!!! note
    Thread local is used to hold overriding modules to allow concurrent tests run.
    This mean you have to manually clean state after each test to avoid side effects: 
    `#!java CustomInjectorFactory.clear()` (of course, if overriding is not used for all tests)

Commit message:

rename configurators into configuration hooks (GuiceyConfigurationHook, GuiceyConfigurationRule, UseGuiceyConfiguration)

src/doc/docs/guide/test.md, after:

# Testing

Test support require `io.dropwizard:dropwizard-testing:1.3.0` dependency.

## General test support

### Configuration hooks

Guicey provides [hooks mechanism](configuration.md#guicey-configuration-hooks) to be able to modify
application configuration in tests.

Using hooks you can disable installers, extensions, guicey bundles  
or override guice bindings.

It may also be useful to register additional extensions (e.g. to validate some internal behaviour).

Example hook:

```java
public class MyHook implements GuiceyConfigurationHook {
    public void configure(GuiceBundle.Builder builder) {
        builder
            .disableModules(FeatureXModule.class)
            .disable(inPackage("com.foo.feature"))
            .modulesOverride(new MockDaoModule())
            .option(Myoptions.DebugOption, true);
    }
}
```

!!! note
    You can modify options in hook and so could enable some custom
    debug/monitoring options specifically for test.

There are special spock and junit extensions for hooks registrations.

### Disables

You can use hooks to disable all not needed features in test:
* [installers](configuration.md#disable-installer) 
* [extensions](configuration.md#disable-extensions) 
* [guice modules](configuration.md#disable-guice-modules)
* [guicey bundles](configuration.md#disable-bundles) 

This way you can isolate (as possible) some feature for testing. 

The most helpful should be bundles disable (if you use bundles for features grouping)
and guice modules.

Use [predicate disabling](configuration.md#disable-by-predicate).

!!! note
    It is supposed that disabling will be used instead of mocking - you simply remove what
    you don't need and register replacements, if required.

### Guice bindings override

It is quite common requirement to override bindings for testing. For example, 
you may want to mock database access.

Guicey could use guice `Modules.override()` to help you override required bindings.
To use it prepare module only with changed bindings (bindings that must override existing).
For example, you want to replace ServiceX. You have few options:

* If it implement interface, implement your own service and bind as 
`bind(ServiceContract.class).to(MyServiceXImpl.class)`
* If service is a class, you can modify its behaviour with extended class
`bind(ServiceX.class).to(MyServiceXExt.class)`
* Or you can simply register some mock instance
`bind(ServiceX.class).toInstance(myMockInstance)`

```java
public class MyOverridingModule extends AbstractModule {
    
    protected configure() {
        bind(ServiceX.class).to(MyServiceXExt.class);        
    }
}
```  

And register overriding module in hook:

```java
public class MyHook implements GuiceyConfigurationHook {
    public void configure(GuiceBundle.Builder builder) {
        builder
            .modulesOverride(new MyOverridingModule());
    }
}
```

### Debug bundles

You can also use special guicey bundles, which modify application behaviour.
Bundles could contain additional listeners or services to gather additional metrics during
tests or validate behaviour.

For example, guicey tests use bundle in tests to enable restricted guice options like 
`disableCircularProxies`.

Bundles are also able to:
* disable installers, extensions, gucie modules
* override guice bindings

You can use lookup mechanism to load bundles in tests. For example, 
[system properties lookup](bundles.md#system-property-lookup). 

## Junit

### Testing core logic

For integration testing of guice specific logic you can use `GuiceyAppRule`. It works almost like 
[DropwizardAppRule](http://www.dropwizard.io/1.3.0/docs/manual/testing.html),
but *doesn't start jetty* (and so jersey and guice web modules will not be initialized). 
Managed and lifecycle objects supported.

```java
public class MyTest {

    @Rule
    GuiceyAppRule<MyConfiguration> RULE = new GuiceyAppRule<>(MyApplication.class, "path/to/configuration.yaml");
    
    public void testSomething() {
        RULE.getBean(MyService.class).doSomething();
        ...
    }
}
```

As with dropwizard rule, configuration is optional

```java
new GuiceyAppRule<>(MyApplication.class, null)
```

### Testing web logic

For web component tests (servlets, filters, resources) use 
[DropwizardAppRule](http://www.dropwizard.io/1.3.0/docs/manual/testing.html).

To access guice beans use injector lookup:

```java
InjectorLookup.getInjector(RULE.getApplication()).getBean(MyService.class);
```

### Testing startup errors

If exception occur on startup dropwizard will call `#!java System.exit(1)` instead of throwing exception (as it was before 1.1.0).
System exit could be intercepted with [system rules](http://stefanbirkner.github.io/system-rules/index.html).

Special rule is provided to simplify work with system rules: `StartupErrorRule`.
It's a combination of exit and out/err outputs interception rules.

To use this rule add dependency: `com.github.stefanbirkner:system-rules:1.16.0`


```java
public class MyErrTest {

    @Rule
    public StartupErrorRule RULE = StartupErrorRule.create();
    
    public void testSomething() {
        new MyErrApp().main('server');
    }
}
```

This test will pass only if application will throw exception during startup.

In junit it is impossible to apply checks after exit statement, so such checks
must be registered as a special callback:

```java
public class MyErrTest {

    @Rule
    public StartupErrorRule RULE = StartupErrorRule.create((out, err) -> {
        Assert.assertTrue(out.contains("some log line"));
        Assert.assertTrue(err.contains("expected exception message"));
    });
    
    public void testSomething() {
        new MyErrApp().main('server');
    }
}
```

Note that err will contain full exception stack trace and so you can check exception type too
by using contains statement like above.

Check callback(s) may be added after rule creation:

```java
@Rule
public StartupErrorRule RULE = StartupErrorRule.create();

public void testSomething() throws Exception {
    RULE.checkAfterExit((out, err) -> {
            Assert.assertTrue(err.contains("expected exception message"));
        });
    ...
}
``` 

Multiple check callbacks may be registered (even if the first one was registered in rule's 
create call).

!!! note ""
    Rule works a bit differently with spock (see below).

## Spock

If you use [spock framework](http://spockframework.org) you can use spock specific extensions:

* `@UseGuiceyApp` - internally use `GuiceyAppRule`
* `@UseDropwizardApp` - internally use `DropwizardAppRule`

Both extensions allows using injections directly in specifications (like spock-guice).

### Spock lifecycle hooks

```groovy
class MyTest extends Specification {
    
    @ClassRule @Shared
    JunitRule sharedRule = new JunitRule()
    
    @Rule
    JunitRule2 rule = new JunitRule2()
    
    def setupSpec() {
    }
    
    def setup() {
    }
    
    def "Test method body" () {
        setup:
    }
}
```

!!! note ""
    Class rules are applied once per test class (same as `setupSpec`).
    Rules are applied per test method (same as `setup`).

Setup order:

* Class rule
* Setup spec method
* Rule
* Setup method
* Test method's setup section

### @UseGuiceyApp

`@UseGuiceyApp` runs all guice logic without starting jetty (so resources, servlets and filters are not available).
Managed objects are handled correctly.

```groovy
@UseGuiceyApp(MyApplication)
class AutoScanModeTest extends Specification {

    @Inject MyService service

    def "My service test" {
        when: 'calling service'
        def res = service.getSmth()
        then: 'correct result returned'
        res == 'hello'
    }
```

Annotation allows you to configure the same things as rules does: application class, configuration file (optional),
configuration overrides.

```groovy
@UseGuiceyApp(value = MyApplication,
    config = 'path/to/my/config.yml',
    configOverride = [
            @ConfigOverride(key = "foo", value = "2"),
            @ConfigOverride(key = "bar", value = "12")
    ])
class ConfigOverrideTest extends Specification {
```

As with rules, `configOverride` may be used without setting config file (simply to fill some configurations)

### @UseDropwizardApp

`@UseDropwizardApp` is useful for complete integration testing (when web part is required):

```groovy
@UseDropwizardApp(MyApplication)
class WebModuleTest extends Specification {

    @Inject MyService service

    def "Check web bindings"() {

        when: "calling filter"
        def res = new URL("http://localhost:8080/dummyFilter").getText()
        then: "filter active"
        res == 'Sample filter and service called'
        service.isCalled()
```

Annotation supports the same configuration options as `@UseGuiceyApp` (see above)

### Dropwizard startup error

`StartupErrorRule` may be used to intercept dropwizard `#!java System.exit(1)` call.
But it will work different then for junit:
`then` section is always called with exception (`CheckExitCalled`). 
Also, `then` section may be used for assertion after exit calls and so there is 
no need to add custom assertion callbacks (required by junit tests).

```groovy
class ErrorTest extends Specification {

    @Rule StartupErrorRule RULE = StartupErrorRule.create()

    def "Check startup error"() {

        when: "starting app with error"
        new MyErrApp().main(['server'])
        
        then: "startup failed"
        thrown(RULE.indicatorExceptionType)
        RULE.output.contains('stating application')
        RULE.error.contains('some error occur')
```

### Spock extensions details

Extensions follow spock-guice style - application started once for all tests in class. It's the same as using rule with
`@ClassRule` annotation. Rules may be used with spock too (the same way as in junit), but don't mix them with
annotation extensions.

There are two limitations comparing to rules:

* Application can't be created for each test separately (like with `@Rule` annotation). This is because of `@Shared` instances support.
* You can't customize application creation: application class must have no-args constructor (with rules you can extend rule class
and override `newApplication` method). But this should be rare requirement.

!!! note ""
    All guicey tests use spock, so you can see extensions usage examples there.

To better understand injection scopes look the following test:

```groovy
@UseGuiceyApp(AutoScanApplication)
class InjectionTest extends Specification {

    // instance remain the same between tests
    @Shared @Inject TestBean sharedBean

    // new instance injected on each test
    @Inject TestBean bean

    // the same context used for all tests (in class), so the same bean instance inserted before each test
    @Inject TestSingletonBean singletonBean

    def "Check injection types"() {
        when: "changing state of injected beans"
        sharedBean.value = 10
        bean.value = 5
        singletonBean.value = 15

        then: "instances are different"
        sharedBean.value == 10
        bean.value == 5
        singletonBean.value == 15

    }

    def "Check shared state"() {

        expect: "shared bean instance is the same, whereas other one re-injected"
        sharedBean.value == 10
        bean.value == 0
        singletonBean.value == 15 // the same instance was set before second test
    }

    // bean is in prototype scope
    static class TestBean {
        int value
    }

    @Singleton
    static class TestSingletonBean {
        int value
    }
}
```

## Overriding beans

There is no direct support for bean overrides yet (it is planned), but you can use the following approach.

First, prepare custom [injector factory](injector.md#injector-factory):

```java
public class CustomInjectorFactory implements InjectorFactory {
    private static ThreadLocal<Module[]> customModules = new ThreadLocal<>();

    @Override
    public Injector createInjector(Stage stage, Iterable<? extends Module> modules) {
        Module[] override = customModules.get();
        customModules.remove();
        return Guice.createInjector(stage, override == null ? modules
                : Lists.newArrayList(Modules.override(modules).with(override)));
    }

    public static void override(Module... modules) {
        customModules.set(modules);
    }

    public static void clear() {
        customModules.remove();
    }
}
```

It allows using guice `Module.overrides()` for bindings substitution.

Register factory in guice bundle:

```java
GuiceBundle.builder()
    .injectorFactory(new CustomInjectorFactory())
```

Guice Module.overrides forcefully override (substitute) all bindings from override modules.
So all modules in your application remain the same but you can create new test modules
with test specific replacements.

For example, suppose we have some service `CustomerService` and it's implementation, defined in appllication
`CustomerServiceImpl`. To override it we prepare new test module:

```java
public class TestModule extends AbstractModule {
    @Override
    protected void configure() {
        bind(CustomerService.class).to(TestCustomerServiceImpl.class);
    }
}
```

Now register overriding module:

```java
CustomInjectorFactory.override(new TestModule());
```

!!! warning
    Overriding modules registration must be performed before guicey start.
    
 After startup, application will use overridden customer service version.

Of course this approach is far from ideal, but it's the best option for now.

!!! note
    Thread local is used to hold overriding modules to allow concurrent tests run.
    This mean you have to manually clean state after each test to avoid side effects: 
    `#!java CustomInjectorFactory.clear()` (of course, if overriding is not used for all tests)
