src/doc/docs/guide/diagnostic/aop-report.md, before:

# AOP report

Guice AOP report shows all registered aop handlers and how (what order) they apply to gucie beans. 

```java
GuiceBundle.builder()
    ...
    .printGuiceAopMap()     
    .build()
```     
 
Example output:

```
    2 AOP handlers declared
    ├── AopModule/Interceptor1                                                    at ru.vyarus.dropwizard.guice.debug.renderer.guice.support.AopModule.configure(AopModule.java:23)
    └── AopModule/Interceptor2                                                    at ru.vyarus.dropwizard.guice.debug.renderer.guice.support.AopModule.configure(AopModule.java:24)


    1 bindings affected by AOP
    │
    └── Service    (r.v.d.g.d.r.g.s.AopModule)
        ├── something()                                                       Interceptor1
        └── somethingElse(List)                                               Interceptor1, Interceptor2
```    

This report shows all affected beans with all methods. In real application it may lead
to the giant report. In real life it would be more suitable to always fine-tune report [as a tool](#tool).
   
## Tool

!!! important
    Report is intended to be used as a tool in order to reveal aop on exact bean or even method
    (or showing appliances of exact handler).
    
Partial aop map activation:

```java
.printGuiceAopMap(new GuiceAopConfig()
                .types(...)
                .methods(...)
                .interceptors(...))
```     

Where usual guice matchers used for type and method matching.

For example, to see only bindings of exact bean:

```java
.printGuiceAopMap(new GuiceAopConfig()
            .types(Matchers.subclassesOf(MyService.class)))
```                   

All methods returning `List`:

```java 
.printGuiceAopMap(new GuiceAopConfig()
                .methods(Matchers.returns(Matchers.subclassesOf(List))))
```         

All appliances of exact interceptor:

```java
.printGuiceAopMap(new GuiceAopConfig()
                .hideDeclarationsBlock()
                .interceptors(MyInterceptor))
```       

!!! note
    In the last case still all handlers applied to filtered methods will be shown (to see overall picture).
    
## Report customization

Report is implemented as guicey [event listener](../events.md) so you can register it directly 
in your bundle if required (without main bundle shortcuts):

```java     
listen(new GuiceAopDiagnostic(new GuiceAopConfig()));
```

Report rendering logic may also be used directly as report provide separate renderer object
implementing `ReportRenderer`. Renderer not bound to guice context and assume direct instantiation. 

For examples of direct renderer usage see [events](../events.md) implementation:

* `InjectorPhaseEvent.ReportRenderer`

Commit message:

add aop warning for kotlin

src/doc/docs/guide/diagnostic/aop-report.md, after:

# AOP report

Guice AOP report shows all registered aop handlers and how (what order) they apply to gucie beans. 

```java
GuiceBundle.builder()
    ...
    .printGuiceAopMap()     
    .build()
```     
 
Example output:

```
    2 AOP handlers declared
    ├── AopModule/Interceptor1                                                    at ru.vyarus.dropwizard.guice.debug.renderer.guice.support.AopModule.configure(AopModule.java:23)
    └── AopModule/Interceptor2                                                    at ru.vyarus.dropwizard.guice.debug.renderer.guice.support.AopModule.configure(AopModule.java:24)


    1 bindings affected by AOP
    │
    └── Service    (r.v.d.g.d.r.g.s.AopModule)
        ├── something()                                                       Interceptor1
        └── somethingElse(List)                                               Interceptor1, Interceptor2
```    

This report shows all affected beans with all methods. In real application it may lead
to the giant report. In real life it would be more suitable to always fine-tune report [as a tool](#tool).

!!! warning "Kotlin"
    If you're using kotlin, keep in mind that it makes methods final by default so guice will not
    be able to [apply aop](https://github.com/google/guice/wiki/AOP#limitations).
    The workaround is to put **open** keyword [before method](https://discuss.kotlinlang.org/t/aop-and-kotlin/685/6).  
   
## Tool

!!! important
    Report is intended to be used as a tool in order to reveal aop on exact bean or even method
    (or showing appliances of exact handler).
    
Partial aop map activation:

```java
.printGuiceAopMap(new GuiceAopConfig()
                .types(...)
                .methods(...)
                .interceptors(...))
```     

Where usual guice matchers used for type and method matching.

For example, to see only bindings of exact bean:

```java
.printGuiceAopMap(new GuiceAopConfig()
            .types(Matchers.subclassesOf(MyService.class)))
```                   

All methods returning `List`:

```java 
.printGuiceAopMap(new GuiceAopConfig()
                .methods(Matchers.returns(Matchers.subclassesOf(List))))
```         

All appliances of exact interceptor:

```java
.printGuiceAopMap(new GuiceAopConfig()
                .hideDeclarationsBlock()
                .interceptors(MyInterceptor))
```       

!!! note
    In the last case still all handlers applied to filtered methods will be shown (to see overall picture).
    
## Report customization

Report is implemented as guicey [event listener](../events.md) so you can register it directly 
in your bundle if required (without main bundle shortcuts):

```java     
listen(new GuiceAopDiagnostic(new GuiceAopConfig()));
```

Report rendering logic may also be used directly as report provide separate renderer object
implementing `ReportRenderer`. Renderer not bound to guice context and assume direct instantiation. 

For examples of direct renderer usage see [events](../events.md) implementation:

* `InjectorPhaseEvent.ReportRenderer`
